English like all languages is a messy
business you can be uncouth but not
couth you can be ruthless but good luck
trying to show somebody that you have
ruth unless you happen to be married to
someone named Ruth it's bad to be
unkempt but impossible to be kempt or
shoveled as opposed to dis shoveled
there are other things that make no more
sense than those but that seem normal
now because the sands of time have
buried where they came from for example
did you ever wonder why a nickname for
Edward is Ned where the N come from it's
the same with Nellie for Ellen after all
if someone's name is Ethan
we don't nickname him Nathan nor we call
our favorite Maria no Maria in fact if
anyone did our primary urge would be to
either scold them or gently hide them
away until the company had departed all
these nicknames traced back to a mistake
although a perfectly understandable one
in fact even the word nickname is weird
what's so NIC about a nickname is it
that it's a name that has a nick in it
let's face it not likely actually in Old
English the word was echoing and eka
meant also or other you can see eka
still used in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales
and a sentence like ones a theorists
ache with his swayed to breath which
meant when zephyr also with his sweet
breath eken a mint also named what
happened was that when people said an
economic good sound like they were
saying a NECA name and after a while so
many people were hearing it that way
that they started saying that's my
nickname
instead of that's my akan aim now the
word had astray and at the front that
started as a mistake but from now on was
what the word really was it was rather
as if you had gum on the bottom of your
shoe and stepped on a leaf dragged that
leaf along for the rest of your life
were buried wearing that shoe and went
to heaven in it to spend eternity wedded
to that stray worn-out leaf economic top
an N and never let it go the same thing
happened with other words old English
speakers cut arches into wood but after
centuries of being asked
to cut and watch into something it was
easy to think you were cutting a knotch
instead and pretty soon you were in a
world where almost no one could read it
was easier for what people heard to
become after a while what it started to
actually be here's where the NED style
nicknames come in Old English was more
like German than our English is now and
just as in German my is mine in Old
English my was mean he would say mean
book actually Boake in Old English or
mean cat and just as today we might
refer to our child as my Dahlia or my
Laura in Old English they would say mean
Edie that is mine
Edie mine le you see where this is going
as time passed mean morphed into the my
we know today that meant that when
people said mine
Edie it sounded like they were saying my
ned that is it sounded like whenever
someone referred to Edward
affectionately they said Ned instead of
Edie behold the birth of a nickname or
an ik name
it's also Nelly for Ellen and nan for
Ann and even in the old days nabi for
Abigail President John Adams wife
Abigail's nickname was Nabi all sorts of
words are like this Old English speakers
war neh proned
but a nape Hren sounds like an apron and
that gave birth to a word apron that no
one in Beowulf would have recognized
Empire started as num pyres too
if all of this sounds like something
sloppy that we modern people would never
do then think about something you hear
all the time and probably say a whole
another what's another we have the word
another of course but it's composed of
an and other or so we thought
yet when we slide hole into the middle
we don't say a whole other we clip that
n off of the N and stick it to other and
create a new word another for a long
time nobody was writing these sorts of
things down or putting them in a
dictionary but that's only because
writing is more codified now than it was
a thousand years ago so when you see a
weird word remember that there might be
a whole another side to the story